---
layout: post
title: Lab 2 Write-Up
subtitle: By Aanya Gupta
cover-img: /assets/purple.png
thumbnail-img: /assets/donuts.png
share-img: /assets/donuts.png
tags: [World Bank, API, Python, Data Science, AOD]
---

First, I spent some time exploring the given World Bank website because there were a ton of links that took me to various places. Next, I browsed through the indicators list and looked at the different representations of each dataset (graphs, XML, etc). 

The 5 indicators I ended up choosing were:

1. Central government debt
1. Population in slums
1. Primary school enrollment
1. Primary school completion rate
1. Kids in employment

I chose these indicators because one of my interests has always been child welfare and what influences/impacts it. In the future, I would be curious to analyze the data obtained from this assignment to determine if there is a strong correlation between any of the indicators. 

I looked at the range of years included in each dataset, and found that there was data from:

1. 1970-2022
1. 2000-2020
1. 1970-2019
1. 1970-2023
1. 1994-2016

I decided that I would pull data from 2000-2016 because all 5 datasets cover those years. 

I decided to pick 6 countries, because that seemed like a reasonable number. I wanted to pull data for countries with different GDPs, from very high to very low. 

So, I went to [this website](https://www.worldometers.info/gdp/gdp-by-country/) and chose 6 countries that were evenly spread out from the ranking of 1-177 (based on GDP). 

I selected:

1. USA
1. India
1. Poland
1. Argentina
1. Kenya
1. Costa Rica

After I had decided my indicators, years, and countries for filtering my data, I got to coding! 

## Task 1

After referring to the class and str method I wrote for my Pokemon assignment, I wrote the `CountryYear` class–defining the required indicators (detailed in Q1) and my 5 additional ones–and str method for this lab. 

```
class CountryYear:
   def __init__(self, name, country_iso3, year, life_expectancy, gdp_per_capita, population, central_gov_debt, pop_in_slums, prim_schl_enrollment, prim_complete_rate, kids_in_employ):
       ## Required indicators
       self.name = str(name)
       self.country_iso3 = str(country_iso3)
       self.year = int(year)
       self.life_expectancy = float(life_expectancy)
       self.gdp_per_capita = float(gdp_per_capita)
       self.population = int(population)
       ## My indicators
       self.central_gov_debt = central_gov_debt
       self.pop_in_slums = pop_in_slums
       self.prim_schl_enrollment = prim_schl_enrollment
       self.prim_complete_rate = prim_complete_rate
       self.kids_in_employ = kids_in_employ

   def __str__(self):
       return f"{self.name},{self.country_iso3},{self.year},{self.life_expectancy},{self.gdp_per_capita},{self.population},{self.central_gov_debt},{self.pop_in_slums},{self.prim_schl_enrollment},{self.prim_complete_rate},{self.kids_in_employ}"
```  

## Tasks 2 and 3

Then, I began writing the `get_world_bank_data(indicator)` method. I started by defining the query parameters, which were country, indicator, year, and format of the data (JSON). I wanted the obtained data to be put into a nested dictionary, so I created one where the data would be stored in `data[country][year]`. Then, I queried my API accordingly through the URL and parsed the JSON response. 

*INSERT STATIC METHOD CODE*

I knew I needed to find a way to map the indicator names to their API codes, so I defined a new method. 

*INSERT CLASS METHOD BUT NOT ALL_DATA*

I didn’t know how to actually get the data from the website for all the indicators into the nested dictionary, so I looked it up online. 

*insert all data line here*

After that, I defined the CountryYear objects for each country and year using the data that was pulled from the website (stored in the nested dictionary). I forgot how to pull data from nested dictionaries (oops), so I visited another website to see how I could do it. 

*insert that big chonk of country year objects*

I began creating the csv file in which my data would be stored by defining another method, where I stated the headers of each of the columns. Subsequently, I wrote the data into the csv file using `csv.writer` (I learned about the function online). 

*insert writing static method chunk*

Next, I defined the countries and years that I wanted to include like so: 

*insert that chunk until years*

Finally, I made the CountryYear objects and saved my csv file. 

*insert last bit*

I didn’t know that I needed to write `@staticmethod` and `@classmethod` on top of each “section” of code, which is why it initially did not work. However, after asking Alisa, I added them, tweaked the code accordingly, and it ran smoothly!

However, I wasn’t finished. The default number of results per page is 50, and you can get more results by going through each page. I realised that my code did not guarantee full coverage of the results, and so I *INSERT WHAT U DID*

## Conclusion

In this lab, I learned how to use the resources available to me and think creatively about problems given a specific set of tools. Additionally, I learned how to effectively use nested dictionaries, define methods, pull data using APIs, and add that data to CSV files! There’s probably a shorter way to achieve the same goal, but I wasn’t sure of what that way was. As mentioned in my last lab, as we learn more tools, I can come back to this and apply what I've learned to shorten my code. This was another fun lab!
